>> Bianca Gandolfo: Breadth-first search
follows this pattern where we traverse
our graph in layers rather than all
the way down first and then the next ones.
So just so we can trace it here,
it's going to go by level, etc.
So
>> Bianca Gandolfo: If we were to console
log the depth every time
that we do this traversal,
it would log something like this.
Zero, one, one, one, two, two, two,
two, three.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
we're going by depth.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We're good?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
And we talked about how
depth-first search uses a stack.
We're using a stack under
the hood with recursion.
However, breath-first search, we have to
explicitly use a queue to make it work.
So, we're going to use a cue for
our stack and
when you're thinking about depth first
search versus breath first search.
The first thing that should
come to your mind cue for
BFS, stack for DFS,
that should be the first thing
that comes to your mind.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All
right.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What
else do I wanna tell you about it?
Okay, okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Should
we just jump in?
Explore the code, and then we'll.
We'll explore the code and
then we'll use our example again, okay?
So, we're gonna do a check if it's valid.
Again, we have this visited object,
and then we have the queue.
So the queue is just gonna add our value,
and then make it's gonna make it an array.
So we are going to give it a 0
if it's visited in this case,
and then we're gonna see.
So while the queue has something in it,
we're gonna do this loop,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool?
All right.
So, for our first no were
going to shift our queue.
What does shift do?
Anyone know?
Let's check it out.
>> Speaker 2: Move everything over one.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm hm So
if we have q and it's an object,
I'm sorry it's an array,
and we say q shift and
then we look at q it's gonna
take off the first one and
shift everything over by one.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We're good?
Great.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, so
that's what we're doing here.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Then we're running our
function.
We're going to pass our node And
then visited node,
interesting.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Let's keep
that in our mind.
Why might we pass that?
Very strange.
So we have our neighbors.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We're
gonna be filtering.
So what does filter do?
Anyone know, anyone familiar
with the interface of filter?
No?
Some of us?
So, filter is going to loop through all of
the elements in a collection and
if it returns true it's
going to return an array
of all of those values that
were true,
based on some function that you passed in.
So here's our function that we're passing.
Here.
So, as you can see, there's a certain,
something has to be met in order for
it to return true.
If that condition is met then we're
gonna add it to our neighbor's
array.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Any
question about what that's doing?
What condition needs to be met?
>> Speaker 3: It can't be visited.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, mm-hm, yeah.
So if,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: If
we do a look up on our visited object and
it's undefined, we're gonna enter in here.
So we're gonna call it visited[neighbor],
visited[node]+1,
we're adding one here and
then we're gonna return true.
So essentially, we can't have visited it.
So this is a way for us to build a queue
based on the nodes that we haven't yet
visited and by queue, I mean an array.
Cool.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
there we are, and
then we're gonna do this thing.
QUEUE = queue.concat(neighbors).
Let's see what that does.
Where's our queue?
Here's our queue.
And then we're gonna say neighbors,
neighbors, and let's do like this.
So we say q.concat(neighbors), right?
We pass it neighbors.
Does anyone know what this does?
If I hit enter what's gonna happen?
>> Speaker 3: Turn that into
a string [CROSSTALK].
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Tacking it on the in.
Concat immediately you
see concat with strings.
But here we are just
concatenating two arrays.
We're just gonna put it on the in.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
All right.
So, here we are.
Adding all the neighbors
next on the queue.
Okay?
And we're going to keep doing
that until our queue is empty.